Now that you have a good
overview of segmentation and
clustering, our next lesson will begin
to dive in to some of the details of
building out a clustering process.
Before we do that though, I thought I
would share a few real world examples
where clustering is being used
across various industries.
Now since my background revolves
around the retail industry, and
many use cases for clustering involve
store and customer segmentation.
The actual exercises we will be
going through, during the class,
will center in this area.
However, clustering can, and is being
used across a number of industries.
As we've discussed, clustering is
really about creating a balance between
standardization and localization.
Whenever you need to work with objects,
but
have too many to make sense of,
clustering can achieve this balance, and
help make working with these
objects more effective.
Let's take a quick look at some examples
to get you thinking of how to apply
these concepts,
in whatever area you work in.
One example,
relates to the insurance industry.
In the instructor notes,
there's a link to a paper that explains
how they're using clustering techniques
to identify fraudulent insurance claims.
Variables such as
beneficiary payment size.
Interest payment size, and
timing between claim submission and
payment, are used to cluster the claims.
Since most claims should fall into the
norm, those clusters that have a small
population are identified as
potential fraud suspects,
and they're checked more thoroughly.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Here's another example that's
a little more fun to think about.
It relates to how a company
might make use of segmentation,
in order to direct their marketing
efforts most effectively.
I'm not sure how they
created these clusters, but
it's a great example of how a market
can be segmented in a way, so
that the business decision makers can
understand who they are marketing to.
They decided to somehow
segment the audience for
the 2016 NBA Championship Series.
As you can see, they broke it down
into segments like rap and hip-hop,
teen girls, and ballers.
And then they took those segments, and
used Twitter comments to determine who
the specific segments were rooting for.
While there were obvious choices,
#DUBNATION for
the Warriors, and
#AllIn216 for the Cavaliers,
it seems that the Teen Girls might
have a thing for Steph Curry.
But the rappers,
may slightly favor a LeBron connection.
The point here,
is that with this information,
better decisions might be made on where
to spend marketing dollars depending,
of course,
on what someone in trying to sell.
Another example I thought I'd mention,
just to show that clustering methods are
not only used in the business world, but
can also be found in many
scientific disciplines.
In this case ,clustering was
used in a bioinformatics study,
to analyze patterns of
anti-microbial resistance,
against various food borne outbreaks,
such as salmonella and e-coli.
One final example relates to how
clustering is now being explored in
the field of education.
This paper,
linked to the instructor notes,
describes how clustering can be used
to investigate similarities, and
differences between groups
of school sites, or for
clustering students, or even clustering
on student behavior patterns.
Now before you click on the links,
be forewarned that these kind of studies
are typically communicated
with academic papers.
I'm not suggesting that you
read through any of these,
unless it's of specific interest to you.
Again, the point of these examples is
to show how clustering methods can
simplify how we deal with
a large number of objects,
by segmenting them into
statistically similar groups.
It's not just restricted
to a specific industry.